
=head1 Configuration Files

This area contains example configuration files.

RPZLA involves the configuration of local BIND resolvers
that use RPZ (see the bind/ sub-dir), and analysis site
at which you can view your data (see the analyse/ sub-dir)
and probably a walled garden site (see the walled-garden/
sub-dir).

For each system that is a BIND resolver, walled garden or
analysis site the 

  /etc/rpzla/rpzla.conf 
  
file needs to be installed.

It provides the details of database connectivity, log file
locations for parsing and the URL detials for the analysis
site.

=head2 Sufficiently Good Practice

Each component (BIND, Walled Garden and Analysis Site) only
needs to know their own things.  Thus, on a resolver it will
need the database credentials for the <log> user but has
no need for the <analysis> user (conversely for the Analysis
site).  Equivalently, the resolver has no need to know where
the Walled Garden keeps its logs.  Everyone needs to know 
where the database is, but, again, only their own type of 
access privileges.

So, for example, a BIND server has no need to know about where
the Analysis site is, or the Walled Garden keeps its logs.

Thus, fill out the config once, in full, and keep that in a 
secure location.  Then as you drop it around to the various 
places, just delete what the local thing doesn't need to know.

This is B<especially> important for the copy that goes in the
Analysis site's 'document root'.  Remove the log user's 
details.  Thus, even if someone gets a copy of the data,
then can't modify your data without lots more effort.
[I have no idea how secure the Mojolicous web framework is,
but reasonably assume it has some vulnerabilities.]

Defence in depth, as they say.
