
=head1 Introduction

DNS Response Policy Zones (RPZ) are a way to use reputational
data for DNS in much the same way as RBL for mail (spam).

Within a BIND 9.8 (or later) resolver one can integrate/define
a collection of zones that contain records for 'suspicious'
sites (e.g malware deliverers).  One can then choose what response
to deliver instead of a normal full recursion.

The response types are NXDOMAIN (no such domain) and a constant
CNAME which would point to a warning site.  This second method
is known as a 'walled garden' in the RPZ literature.

The walled garden approach is that which we wish to use.

This software collection supports the logging and analysis of
data gathered from the resolver(s) and the walled garden web
site.

=head2 Use Cases

=over

=item Spam / Malware

A person receives an email message with a link to a malware
delivery site which is known to the RPZ.  The user clicks 
on the link.  The resolver returns the walled garden CNAME
(and logs it) the browser visites the walled garden (and
the web site logs that).

=item Malware

Some piece of malware uses the resolver to resolve a site
known to RPZ.  The malware then attempts to interact with
the site for its own purposes.  The resolver will log the
resolution of the RPZ known site.  The web site may a) be 
visited using HTTP or b) not (depends on what the malware
does -- unknown).

=back

=head2 Analysis

Cases 1. and 2. a) are indistiguishable and are marked by
a correlation between the resolution log and a web site
visit.  This indicates that either the person using a
computer needs more education about clicking links in 
suspicious mail, or that their system is infected.

Case 2. b) indicates an infection in the computer.
