
=head1 Deployment Guidelines

=head2 Overview

RPZLA involves:

=over

=item *

learning about using RPZ in BIND

=item *

modifying at least one resolver to use RPZ

=item *

creating a web server with a default site to act as the Walled Garden
'Warning Site'

=item *

creating a database into which logs from the resolvers and Walled Garden
are stored

=item *

creating an 'Analysis' site at which the gathered data can be viewed
and analysed

=back

=head2 Recommendations

All of these systems can be hosted on one single server, either physical
or virtual.  It is recommended that this path of a single server is used
to familiarise oneself with the components and associated difficulties of
establishing the facility.

Once that is achieve, one is then confident enough to deploy across your
organisation.

=head3 Trial

On a single system:

=over

=item *

Install BIND, Apache and PostgreSQL

=item *

Install the RPZLA components, including sample data

=item *

Test the sample data

=item *

Add a local rule for an rpz 'nasty' site

=item *

hit it by using using a resolver client (e.g dig) and 
a web browser against your locally defined 'nasty' domain

=back

=head3 Full Deployment

Order is important here, to minimise operational downtime:

=over

=item *

Create the production database.  Enable all 'clients' to be 
able to contact it (i.e all resolvers and the Walled Garden).  Test
connectivity.

=item * 

Create the Analysis site with sample data.  Check that it is 
accessible.

=item * 

Create the Walled Garden site with appropriate content for your
organisation, and log scrapper running.  Test it, and ensure that its 
log data is being delivered to the database, and thus viewable from 
the Analysis site.

=item *

Perform a complete re-install of the the 'testing' system you used
in the trial to be just a resolver.  Configure it to use the production
database.  Test it with DNS queries and web browser interaction for
your locally configured 'nasty' domain.  Verify that these records
are viewable at the Analysis site.

=item *

(Optional) remove the locally defined 'nasty' domain.

=item *

Roll out the new resolver, and their data scrappers across all 
of your published resolvers.

=item *

Decommission the testing / trial system (now only acting as a non-published
resolver).

=back
