
=head1 NAME

RPZLA::Scraper::Base - Base class for RPZLA log scrapers

=head1 DESCRIPTION

RPZLA pulls data from both a web server (Apache) and DNS
recursive resolvers (BIND).  There is a process for parsing
each log, and these processes are system daemons.

Thus, a log parser needs to:

  use syslog
  disconnect from any terminal etc. (daemonize)
  load the config file
  connect to the database (and disconnect)
  attach to the log file (and detach)
  respond to signals for stop and reload config

Responding to the 'reload config' signal means closing database
and log file watching, reloading config and then reconnecting
to the data source (log) and data destination (database).

The action of the two types of scraper is identical apart from:

  the location of the log file
  the formation of the log line, and what we ignore

This base class handles everything else (i.e all the stuff listed above)

=head1 IMPLEMENTATION

Sorry.  Crap use of Class::Struct. But its simple.  I like simple.

=head1 Use by derived classes

See the in file commentary in Base.pm.  

The derived class needs to let Base know where the log file is.

This is recorded in the config.  So, the derived class is 
tasked with loading the config.  Because its doing that, it needs 
also to initiate the syslog access.  Routines to do both of these
things are provided here in the base class.  Just call them.

Then, set the _log_path with what you learn from the config.

Part two is log parsing and supplying the SQL statement to be
used for establishing a prepared insert.  These are related.

The number of (space separated) fields that you return from 
your log parse function needs to match the insert.  (And you need
to match the types etc.).

Should be obvious.  Just check our the existing derived classes.

Supply the SQL for the statement preparation (_prep_insert_sql)
and supply the function for parsing a log entry and returning
(_parse_log_entry).

The base class does all the rest.

=head1 SEE ALSO

rpzla.conf, rpzla-apache(1), rpzla-bind(1)

=head1 AUTHOR

Hugo M. Connery 

=cut
